README.md, before:

# extracTR

## Introduction

extracTR is a powerful tool for extracting and analyzing tandem repeats from raw DNA sequences. It utilizes advanced algorithms to identify repetitive patterns in genomic data, providing valuable insights for researchers in genomics and bioinformatics.

## Features

- Efficient tandem repeat detection from raw sequencing data
- Support for paired-end FASTQ files
- Customizable parameters for fine-tuning repeat detection
- Output in easy-to-analyze CSV format
- Multi-threaded processing for improved performance

## Requirements

- Python 3.7 or later
- Jellyfish 2.3.0 or later
- Conda (for easy environment management)

## Installation

We recommend installing extracTR in a separate Conda environment to manage dependencies effectively.

1. Create a new Conda environment:

```bash
conda create -n extractr_env python=3.9
```

2. Activate the environment:

```bash
conda activate extractr_env
```

3. Install Jellyfish:

```bash
conda install -c bioconda jellyfish
```

4. Install extracTR using pip:

```bash
pip install extracTR
```

To deactivate the environment when you're done:

```bash
conda deactivate
```

## Usage

Before running extracTR, ensure that you have removed adapters from your sequencing reads and activated the Conda environment:

```bash
conda activate extractr_env
```

Basic usage:

```bash
extracTR -1 reads_1.fastq -2 reads_2.fastq -o output_prefix
```

Advanced usage with custom parameters:

```bash
extracTR -1 reads_1.fastq -2 reads_2.fastq -o output_prefix -t 64 -c 30 -k 25
```

Options:
- `-1, --fastq1`: Input file with forward DNA sequences in FASTQ format
- `-2, --fastq2`: Input file with reverse DNA sequences in FASTQ format
- `-o, --output`: Prefix for output files
- `-t, --threads`: Number of threads to use (default: 32)
- `-c, --coverage`: Coverage to use for indexing (default: 1)
- `-k, --k`: K-mer size to use for indexing (default: 23)

## Output

extracTR generates the following output files:
- `{output_prefix}.csv`: Main output file containing detected tandem repeats
- `{output_prefix}.sdat`: Intermediate file with k-mer frequency data
- Additional files for detailed analysis and debugging

Commit message:

add fasta and se support

README.md, after:

# extracTR

## Introduction

extracTR is a tool for identifying and analyzing tandem repeats in genomic sequences. It works with raw sequencing data (FASTQ) or assembled genomes (FASTA), using k-mer based approaches to detect repetitive patterns efficiently.

## Features

- Efficient tandem repeat detection from raw sequencing data
- Support for single-end and paired-end FASTQ files
- Support for genome assemblies in FASTA format
- Customizable parameters for fine-tuning repeat detection
- Output in easy-to-analyze CSV format
- Multi-threaded processing for improved performance

## Requirements

- Python 3.7 or later
- Jellyfish 2.3.0 or later
- Conda (for easy environment management)

## Installation

We recommend installing extracTR in a separate Conda environment to manage dependencies effectively.

1. Create a new Conda environment:

```bash
conda create -n extractr_env python=3.9
```

2. Activate the environment:

```bash
conda activate extractr_env
```

3. Install Jellyfish:

```bash
conda install -c bioconda jellyfish
```

4. Install extracTR using pip:

```bash
pip install extracTR
```

To deactivate the environment when you're done:

```bash
conda deactivate
```

## Usage

Before running extracTR, ensure that you have removed adapters from your sequencing reads and activated the Conda environment:

```bash
conda activate extractr_env
```

Basic usage:

For paired-end FASTQ files:
```bash
extracTR -1 reads_1.fastq -2 reads_2.fastq -o output_prefix
```

For single-end FASTQ file:
```bash
extracTR -1 reads.fastq -o output_prefix
```

For genome assembly in FASTA format:
```bash
extracTR -f genome.fasta -o output_prefix
```

Advanced usage with custom parameters:

```bash
extracTR -1 reads_1.fastq -2 reads_2.fastq -o output_prefix -t 64 -c 30 -k 25
```

Options:
- `-1, --fastq1`: Input file with forward DNA sequences in FASTQ format
- `-2, --fastq2`: Input file with reverse DNA sequences in FASTQ format (optional for paired-end data)
- `-f, --fasta`: Input genome assembly in FASTA format
- `-o, --output`: Prefix for output files
- `-t, --threads`: Number of threads to use (default: 32)
- `-c, --coverage`: Coverage to use for indexing (default: 1)
- `-k, --k`: K-mer size to use for indexing (default: 23)

Note: You must provide either FASTQ file(s) or a FASTA file as input.

## Output

extracTR generates the following output files:
- `{output_prefix}.csv`: Main output file containing detected tandem repeats
- `{output_prefix}.sdat`: Intermediate file with k-mer frequency data
- Additional files for detailed analysis and debugging
